# Loc Tran Self-Assessment

The name of the project is Learning Data Structures and Algorithms. The main objective of this project is to create an iOS application that helps Computer Science students to learn data structures and algorithms. This application will demonstrate step-by-step the explanation and animation of some basic CS data structures and algorithms. Data structure, that might be included, are Linked-List, Stacks and Queues. Algorithms, that will be demonstrated, are Bubble Sort, Selection Sort, Insertion Sort, Merge Sort, Quick Sort, Heap Sort, Linear Search, Binary Search, Breadth-First Search and Depth-First Search. This application will have two options for users. First option is Study. When users select this option, the application will provide a set of fixed data. In this mode, the application will provide a short explanation in text belong to the animation. The second option is Customize. In this mode, users can enter their set of data. This application also provides PDF documents that briefly describe the algorithms and data structure as well as their pseudo code.

I choose this project because I think this application will be helpful for Computer Science major students. I found that it was very important to understand data structure and algorithms to be a good developer. I have had Data Structures course and Design & Analysis of Algorithms course. These two courses were very helpful for me. However, I also found that it was difficult to deeply understand the contents of these two courses just by reading the texts. I always needed my professors to demonstrate some examples by hand so that we can understand better. I think it is a very good idea to have an application that students can quickly access and see the animation of these data structures and algorithms. 

The last two co-op positions that I had were iOS application developer at Techmaster Vietnam. I have learned many valuable knowledges during these two co-op semesters. I had a chance to learn a new programming language, which is Swift. I had built some small iOS applications by myself and with the team. I have learned how to build an iOS application from the scratch, how to work with the team, and how to present our application to the CEO as well as customers. These two co-op semesters help me to decide my career path. I am very interested in being an iOS developer.  During these co-ops, the most useful knowledges and skills that I have used the most were studied from Data Structures and Design & Analysis of Algorithms courses. 

After my last two co-op semesters, I decided to build an iOS application for my senior design project. As stated above, I have had some difficulties of understanding data structures and algorithms and I found that it was very important to understand these contents to do a good job in real life work. Therefore, I decided that my application will be about learning Data Structure and Algorithms. I have discussed with my partner – Zach Carey, I decided that this application will be a native app. This project should a straight forward project. I will be in charge of implementation of Sorting Algorithms. And Zach will implement Searching Algorithms and other Data Structures. We will collect the documentation from previous courses and from our faculty advisor.

The expectation of this project is a working application that can run smoothly on any iOS devices. I expect to publish this application on AppStore before March. The biggest accomplishment that I want to achieve is the professors who will teach Data Structures and Design & Analysis of Algorithms course would use my application for their teaching.
