# ABET Constraints


Our project is to create an iOS application that can run on iOS 8.0 and above devices. Therefore, it is important to have an up-to-date iOS device to test the application. One team member, Zachary Carey, has an iphone 5S that we can test the application on. However, iphone 5S can only work best with iOS 8 and iOS 9, so a team member, Loc Tran, wil purchase an iPhone X which costs about one thousand dollars. The fund will be supplied personally by Loc Tran. Another expense that our team will need to purchase is the fee to register Apple developer accounts, which is one hundered dollars per account per year. Each of team members need to cover this expense by themselves. At the end of Spring semester, we will publish this application on AppStore and it will be free to download. This application will contain advertisement from AdMob by Google.

This senior design project has a direct impact on professional development of both team members, Zachary Carey and Loc Tran. Each team member has been working as iOS developers, and this project will stand out as one of the first achievement for future career of each team member. This project can also be deployed into academic environment to help computer-science freshmen student having a better and easier understanding of basic algorithms and data structure, which are the critical keys in CS major. If this project has successfully been accomplished and accepted by the council of professors at UC, it will be used as an appendix in delivering key concepts in the two courses such as Computer Science I & II and Data Structure.

Since the goal of this app is to teach students Computer Science concepts it is imperative that the information communicated from the app to the user is accurate. Anything less than accurate would undermine the whole point of creating the application. In order to ensure the app’s legitimacy Loc and Zach must both test it and get capable eyes to review the app as well (Peer Review).

Our app is meant as a tool for public service to teach and learn Computer Science. While we plan to monetize through ads and an ad-free paid version, there will not be any content behind a paywall. All content can be reached through either version. We hope to make CS students’ lives easier by providing a tool which can help them learn foundational to advanced CS concepts.
